>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on--
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>We need to give
people the information.
[APPLAUSE]
>>And now, the host of the
nationally syndicated "Coast
to Coast AM" and GaiamTV
bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
A long time ago in a
far off land, there
was a name called Nostradamus.
And that very special
person wrote in quatrains.
Not a lot of people at
the time could figure out
exactly what he meant.
Not only will our
guest interpret
some of those special
quatrains, but he's
very prophetic on his own.
Let's hear it for John Hogue.
Hey, John.
[APPLAUSE]
>> JOHN HOGUE: Thank you.
Hey, hey.
>> NOORY: Good to have
you here, my friend.
How are you?
>> HOGUE: Good to see you again.
>> NOORY: Have a seat.
John, you look like the
modern day Nostradamus.
Almost identical.
How come? [LAUGHS]
>> HOGUE: I think I look
more like Johannes Brahms.
>> NOORY: All right.
But you may be reincarnated.
You may be him.
>> HOGUE: Well,
it could be this.
You know how you start
looking like your dog,
or you start looking
like your wife?
When you're married to something
for over a quarter century--
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> HOGUE: --that I've
actually been published,
But another 10
years before that.
And then yes, you start
looking like Nostradamus.
>> NOORY: [BARKING] Like that.
>> HOGUE: [CHORTLING]
>> NOORY: Who was Nostradamus?
>> HOGUE: Nostradamus was born
in 1503, and died in 1566.
If he had done
nothing in prophesy,
he would still go down as
one of the great physicians
and healers of the 16th century.
He was known to have
single-handedly cured
the plague in several
cities in South France,
where he was born.
And he was also very
well known in his time
as a maker of recipes.
Of cosmetics.
He had a cosmetics industry.
He also was truly
French in that he
was a culinary genius in a
lot of things that he did.
His interest in prophecy
was a small part
of what was a lifetime
of a Renaissance man
who had many, many
passions and interests.
>> NOORY: Was he
loved during his era?
>> HOGUE: Well, he had the
distinction of being the Jeane
Dixon of his time.
>> NOORY: Ah-ha.
>> NOORY: I mean, he had a
very, very similar situation,
where he started serializing
his history of the future,
"Le prophete."
Very generic title,
" The Prophecies."
>> NOORY: Sure
>> HOGUE: It was supposed to
be 10 volumes of 100 quatrains,
four-line poems apiece,
with a couple prose openings
to the serializations.
It took a decade to be
released, but the first one
that was released in
1555 got the attention
of the Queen of France,
Catherine of Medici,
who was quite an occultist.
He was summoned.
She nagged her
husband, Henry II,
to have him summoned to court
and explain a quatrain which
seemed to describe her husband's
death in a jousting accident.
So what's intriguing about
this is that before he could
actually get your
book published,
you had to send it to a
special office in the court.
And anything that was
occult, Catherine of Medici
was probably the first
person in France to read it.
>> NOORY: She'd get it.
>> HOGUE: To give
it the royal seal.
And so, she was
his first reader.
Probably his first disciple.
And then, because he
came out of the audience,
I'm sure that he talked
about the other prophecies
in the very same
volume that described
two possibilities for the King.
Either he dies in
jousting accident,
or he becomes
Cherim Saline, which
is an anagram, a wordplay, for
Henrick, the H of his livery,
and a crescent for his mistress,
Diane de Poitiers, Saline,
the moon.
And so, everybody knew that he
was talking about Henry II, who
was a very handsome jock,
but not much upstairs.
And so, rather than become the
second Charlemagne of France
as predicted, several
years later in 1559,
he died in a jousting
accident, exactly
as the quatrain described.
>> NOORY: Why did he bury
his prophetic writings
in quatrains, where nobody at
the time understood what he was
writing about?
>> HOGUE: Well, actually,
in the 16th century,
a lot of people wrote in
quatrains, in word plays,
using classical
metaphors, anagrams.
It was the riot of the time.
I mean, if you look
at Shakespeare,
who's a near contemporary, you
find a lot of puns and anagrams
in Shakespeare.
It was the fad of
writing of the time.
So what's more
intriguing to me is
why the Luke Garricos and some
of these other visionaries
of the time get
all but forgotten.
Why is it that Nostradamus,
using anagrams, using
a charlatan's technique--
which he said would cause him
a lot of troubles.
But he said, when I
look at the future--
he soul searched for years
about writing this book.
Not just at the harm that might
come to him, a Christianized
Jew, and to his family,
because of church justices.
But also in some
of his prophecies,
it looks like he's very clearly
describing a man named Hister
who would invade France through
the forest of the Ardennes,
and the great French
empire would fall.
And when Goebbels, the
propaganda minister of Hitler,
actually used Nostradamus'
verses in a propaganda war
with the French
before the invasion,
Nostradamus may have
seen that, and realized
that I have to obscure
this enough so that it's
a little harder for good people
to find out what I'm actually
saying, and a little more
difficult also for evil people.
I mean, give an example here.
What if Saddam Hussein
recognized himself
in the prophecies, and realized
that invading Kuwait before he
had nuclear tipped scud missiles
to hit Israel was a dumb idea?
>> NOORY: He would have
backed off for a while.
>> HOGUE: Who would be
responsible for that snafu,
if it was too clear?
If he called Hister
rather Hitler,
even though he says he's
going to be born in the Norica
Mountains, which is the Roman
Latin ancient term for Austria,
that he-- Hister is the ancient
name of the River Danube.
He grew up in Linz, Austria at
the shores of the river Danube.
He was also call the
Captain of Greater Germany.
He described him as a man with
a crooked cross as his symbol.
That he would break
treaties in '41, '45.
>> NOORY: Amazing.
>> HOGUE: And then the one that
talks about him being buried
in an iron cage, and no one
would know for sure what
actually happened to him, when
the whole world was against
Hister.
Now we think of the
Fuhrerbunker as finished
in its cement bunker.
But I saw pictures
of the Fuhrerbunker
when it was being built, and
it was a gigantic Rebar cage
of two stories deep down
in the Reich Chancellery.
And it was an epiphany
for me saying,
ah, he saw it as the cage.
So that's just a little
touch of some of the things
that-- and I must also say that
in the over 1,500 verses, not
just those in his major
work, "Le prophete,"
"The Prophecies," but also
in all of his other works,
that there is a huge
amount of his work
which is completely
open to interpretation.
But there are, just when as
a scholar of Nostradamus,
just when there's
a moment where you
want to throw the book to
the wall and say, come on,
like light through the fog
comes a date, a name, a thing.
And it was almost
like he's expecting
at a certain critical
mass of your attention
that you're going to
say, aw, this is all BS,
something is there.
Hundreds of prophecies
are like that.
>> NOORY: Are there still some
prophecies from Nostradamus
that have not happened yet
that you see in the future?
>> HOGUE: Well, Nostradamus
dated the end of his chronicle
"Future History of Man"
to the year 3797 AD,
which is nearly
1800 years from now.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> HOGUE: So, yeah.
There's a lot of history left.
The other problem with this is
there's a lot of history that
was definitely seen that's
never going to happen.
Because what I have
learned from studying
him is that there are
alternative futures.
The most famous one being
that launched him into fame.
That in his first serialization
of his early prophecies,
Catherine de Medici was one
of the first people, the Queen
of France, to read
his prophecy, that
looked at the death of
her husband, Henry II,
in a jousting accident.
It became such the
talk of court--
>> NOORY: She must
have panicked.
>> HOGUE: Well, she did.
And being an occultist,
she panicked,
and she wanted to see
this Nostradamus fellow,
and he was called to the
court in August 1555.
We don't know exactly what was
stated in the conversation,
but I imagine that
Nostradamus described the two
alternative futures that he
had written for the King.
One, he dies in a
jousting accident.
Two, he becomes the
second Charlemagne,
and even incorporates
Savoy and Northern Italy
as part of what we
would call France today.
Well, he didn't do the latter.
There at least 15
prophecies that
describe in detail a
history that never happened.
And why?
Because being the
jock that he was--
>> NOORY: No.
>> HOGUE: And even said, he
did comment a few months after
the meeting, said, I can't
think of a better way to go than
in a ritual combat,
fighting a fellow knight.
And if there's an
accident, it's fine.
And so, he chose that path.
Several years later
in 1559, Nostradamus
attained the fame of Jeane
Dixon in his own time
by documenting a prophecy widely
known that was then fulfilled.
And then he became the talk
of the courts of Europe.
>> NOORY: In this particular
case with the King,
did he die in a
jousting accident?
>> HOGUE: He did.
The elements of the
prophecy are, the young lion
shall face the older lion
in a field of ritual combat.
It is said that they
had both lions embossed
on their shields.
He will be pierced
through a gilded cage.
Now, that sounds very
strange unless you understand
that the King's
visor was gilded.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> HOGUE: And a splinter from
de Lorges, who was fighting him,
broke--
>> NOORY: From his lance?
>> HOGUE: --and penetrated
through the visor.
>> NOORY: Through his lance?
>> HOGUE: Yes.
Through his lance.
And penetrated behind his eye.
And he said, both blinded
and dying a horrible death.
He died of peritonitis
in agony 10 days later.
And on the day of his
death, a mob in Paris
came to the justices
of the Church
with effigies of Nostradamus
aflame and said, burn this man.
>> NOORY: They thought he
was a witch or something.
>> HOGUE: Absolutely.
When he had been
years before visiting
on the grace of
the King and Queen,
he had to leave early
when the justices wanted
to ask him how he
did what he did.
And he always kept that
close to his chest,
because a lot of what
he did was related
to Hebraic astrological
calculations.
And a lot of books
that he said were
forbidden that he burned, and
described an unholy light that
came out of his large
fireplace in Salon-de-Provence
in South France where he lived.
Now, of course, that could have
been resin from ancient books
making funny colors.
But he said it was this white,
unholy light permeating all
through the house.
That could have also
been a ruse to say, yes,
I did look at that bad stuff.
Sometimes the
existential argument
is the best way to save you.
Rather than say,
no, no, I haven't
looked at all that stuff,
you say, yes I did,
and I am chastened by it.
And I burned those books.
>> NOORY: We're going to take
some of your questions for John
Hogue.
So who's got one right now?
Just hold your hand up,
and we'll get right to you,
as we talk about the
prophecies of Nostradamus.
There you go.
>> AUDIENCE: You know, not
to go to the end of the book,
but his prophecies were also
very positive, weren't they?
In that he said that
mankind would eventually
achieve a new level,
or a new conscience?
>> HOGUE: Well--
>> NOORY: Was he upbeat, John?
Actually, no.
There are very, very few moments
where Nostradamus is upbeat.
He is one of the most
pessimistic prophets
I've ever dealt with.
But that is the nature of his
conditioning as a 16th century
man.
And it was compassionate
that he was so scary,
because I'm sure some of you
have seen the show "Scared
Straight," where
a bunch of punks
come into a maximum prison,
and then the lifers scare
them enough to
make them not be--
>> NOORY: Bad ever again.
>> HOGUE: Life of crime.
Well, Nostradamus did
that with all of us
in the coming generations.
He tried to scare us off
certain negative trends.
Now, it is true, and the rarity
of his positive statements
have far more power,
because they are so rare,
that he does talk about
an evolution of humanity.
A golden age that will
come after a great crises.
But his astrological
prophecies indicate
that that is not
coming any time soon.
And perhaps the
most dangerous time
is before us in the
next two decades.
I mean, he is like
many other predictors
of other prophetic
traditions that
foresaw the rising of
oceans, the sky inflamed
with the sun desiccating
great tracts of latitude 48
across the Earth.
Which is all the major Northern
hemispheric grain belts.
He described global
warming 450 years ago,
like many traditions do.
But even in greater detail,
describing how you'll come
see a period of time where
there are mountains of grain.
And then he goes
and describes a tube
that breathes through a
hole in the floor that
sends this grain through.
It's like he's trying
to describe a grain
mill, a 20th century grain mill
from a 1500s point of view.
But he says, there
will be mounds
of grain, which is an
unbelievable sight,
even for a man in the 1500s.
But there will be man
eating his fellow man.
So it shows that something
that we're already seeing today
in the great imbalance of
wealth, the 99% versus the 1%
is also a great
imbalance in those
who have the mountains
of grain stored,
and those who could be fed,
but can't even afford the food.
And then when you add
to that desisccating
central continents, which are
definitely in his prophecies,
the rising of the ocean where
the ocean will reach Paris
from the Seine, you're
being scared straight.
Are you being scared
straight to change it?
>> NOORY: How about another one?
Who's got something?
There you go.
>> AUDIENCE: I know that
some of the prophesy,
people who divine prophecy
throughout time have different
modalities of achieving
this prophecy.
Edgar Cayce was in hypnosis.
How do you think Nostradamus
was getting his information?
>> HOGUE: Edgar Cayce was
known as the sleeping prophet,
because the vast majority
of his 14,000 plus readings,
most of which were about
healing the sick and doing life
readings for people, were
basically done in a sleep
trance.
He used to put himself
into a trance on the couch,
and they would record what he
would say, and document it.
And when he'd come out of it,
he'd say, what did we get?
So except for a few waking dream
visionary prophecies, which
are also quite amazing,
but very rare with Cayce,
he was not home when
it was happening.
Nostradamus took a different
structure, and a unique one,
in that he was a man
who-- I don't really
know of any other person
in that period of time
or before, even after,
that would amalgamate
many different traditions
into his own customized
version of magic.
We get few hints of what he did.
And it really puts
a cabash on a lot
of the people who
have been trying
to say he was part of
a secret organization
or group, the Knights
Templar or others,
because anybody who would stray
from the exact and secretive
discipline, which
Nostradamus did all the time,
would at the very least not
be included in the order,
and the very worst,
assassinated.
So he was a lone wolf.
He was extremely dyslexic.
It helps to be dyslexic to
study the works of Nostradamus.
I'm dyslexic, so it helps.
If I said something--
>> NOORY: So you are
reincarnated from him.
>> HOGUE: Reincarnated from
him am I. [LAUGHING] No.
So Nostradamus,
unfortunately I'm
at fault for a
misinterpretation.
It was true that Nostradamus
stared in bowls of water
doing hydromancy.
The Hollywood picked that up,
and many of the documentaries
picked that up.
And now, you have this
poor mythology of,
Nostradamus did nothing
but stare at bowls of water
all the time.
Which is actually, he used that.
He used magic mirrors.
He used all the
tools of the occult.
He used Grimoires of Solomon.
He probably put himself in
a circle with the triangle
to the right, where he
would conjure spirits.
He was fundamentally
a theurgist,
who took the Neoplatonist
works of Iamblichus
from second century
as his bible,
because he quotes it outright
in the Marcino Fuccio
edition in Latin.
He didn't have to go all over
the Mediterranean to find this,
as some authors said, because
he always was nearby Marseilles.
Marseilles is a port that was
a window to all the information
that came through the
Mediterranean world.
And as much as he detested
the city in his writings,
he even spent some time there,
because the tables of libraries
at the wharfs had all
these remarkable books.
One of them being
to Fuccino's work.
Now, he also would then
take the Oracle Delphi,
and he would be like a priest,
rather than a priestess,
sitting on a brass tripod.
He didn't have the fissure
for the volcanic vent
to create the noxious
sulfuric fumes that
would make him go
off into a trance.
So he had to do what
the brachide, which
he says bronchus
is what he uses.
The brachide, who were the
priests and priestesses
of Apollo.
They lived in Asia
Minor Greek colonies.
So they didn't have a volcano,
so they had to improvise.
So they had a brisket
with an iron bowl,
and then they would
boil the noxious fumes
with Devil's turds,
other things,
to make this terrible smell.
And then he would
then purify himself.
Another big myth.
No one's seen Nostradamus
in his street clothes
doing hocus pocus.
>> NOORY: He always
had robes on.
>> HOGUE: Yeah.
Well, he has his hat,
his three-cornered hat,
and all of that.
And what he would
do is go through
a spiritual purification.
He would strip all of
his street clothes off.
He would purify him
in a bowl of water.
He would wash himself.
Douche himself over.
And then he would put on
a white robe with a hood.
He would become a
Neoplatonist like Iamblichus.
He would look like he had
walked out of the ancient Roman
necromantic times.
He would then mount
his brass tripod.
And then with a laurel branch
in the column of the mist,
he would then begin
his incantations
that are secret only to him,
lilting deeper and deeper
into a trance state.
At a certain point,
he would reach down
with the laurel branch, dip
it into the boiling water
sulfuric fumes,
and then flick it
on his foot, and
the hem of his robe.
And then, the sting
of that scolding,
he would feel a great terror,
and then followed by divine
splendour.
And then he would say, the
God to the side speaks.
So he was a channeler, as
we would rather vulgarly
call it in our time.
A New Age channeler.
Although I prefer the term
medium, who would then
conjure up either
within his inner mind,
or literally in that triangle,
spirits that could be lower
astral, demonic, or
Archons, gods, people.
Using his classical
metaphors, we
would describe them as beings
from higher planes that
would show him a dark and
shadowy view of the future,
and then tell him
what is going on.
And then out of this trance, he
would then with a sacred pen,
goose feather--
>> NOORY: And he'd write.
>> HOGUE: He'd write.
>> NOORY: John, we're
going to take this break.
We're going to come right back
with John Hogue on "Beyond
Belief," talk about this
Mayan calendar dates.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NOORY: And welcome
back to "Beyond Belief,"
with John Hogue,
our special guest,
as we talk about the
prophecies of Nostradamus.
Today is a very
interesting day, John.
It's December 21, 2012, the
Mayan calendar end date.
A lot of people
think, this is it.
There'll be no Saturday.
What does it mean to you?
>> HOGUE: Well, the whole
feeling of, this day is it,
really stems from how everybody
expected the year 2000,
which was the ultimate moment
for Chicken Little to really
get hit on the
head with the sky--
>> NOORY: The Y2K and all that.
>> HOGUE: --and all that.
And yet it passed unremarkable
for doom and gloom.
But as we get 12 years
into the 21st century,
it seems more and
more of the things
that we were all anticipating--
>> NOORY: Are coming--
>> HOGUE: --are
coming to fruition.
And so it has brought
more attention
to a calendar system that is the
most ancient accurate calendar
system.
There are other more
ancient calendar systems,
but this one is
the most accurate.
It has a leap year
every 320,000 years.
And so, people are
logically, common sense
says, well, if it's the most
accurate calendar, then when
its age does a reboot,
that's the real millennium.
>> NOORY: They're scared.
They think it's over.
It ends.
>> HOGUE: Well, there's another
group of people that embrace it
in a completely different
way that they think that
they're going to get a
contact enlightenment high.
That they don't
have to do anything.
They don't have to
work on themselves.
It's just because
the grand alignment
of the Sun with the Earth
and the galactic center,
which is what the Mayan,
some people believe,
were calculating,
well, that alignments
going to create some
kind of energy thing
that's a lot like HG Wells'
"The Days of the Comet."
>> NOORY: Right.
Or "Space Odyssey."
Something's wonderful's
going to happen.
>> HOGUE: Everybody wakes up,
and we've all had our Scrooge
moment, and God bless
us, each and every one.
>> NOORY: Exactly.
Thank you, Tiny Tim.
>> HOGUE: Yes.
And I look at this as
a prophecy scholar,
tracking many, many
different time cycles.
And I often think
that what has happened
to the poor Mayan calendar and
the Maya is that their date has
become the Lindsay
Lohan of doomsday dates.
>> NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>> HOGUE: It's gone
Hollywood, folks.
And it's got a lot of drama.
It's a bit simple.
It's blonde.
It's all the projections
and stereotypes
that we put on stuff that
doesn't really matter.
But it's entertaining.
And in that it has
been the loss of what
the Mayan calendar really is.
Also in that is a problem that
the Maya could never solve.
Because as great as they were
at calculating time with thumb,
line, and remarkably primitive
tools, without a computer,
you cannot calculate vast
periods of time without some
miscalculation.
And there are people
who studied it
at JPL and other laboratories.
There's a lot of astronomers,
by the way, who their day job is
astronomy, but their
night hobby is astrology.
And they have come to understand
that the Mayan 2012 actually
happened 13 years ago,
between the winter
solstices of 1998 and 1999.
Now, nothing much happened that
could make a 2012 super mega--
>> NOORY: Yeah.
There was nothing
that imprinted us.
That I can remember.
>> HOGUE: Buses weren't flying
through fissures with sewer
pipes, and all that.
It didn't happen.
It didn't Hollywoodize.
But what I think is
important to understand
is that in the great
calculation of times,
these are like seasons.
Can you recall an exact moment
and exact time on your calendar
that winter shifted to spring,
and suddenly all the flowers
popped out, and the
birds began to sing,
like a Hollywood Disney film?
I mean, this is not
how nature works.
It's not even the
nature of great ages.
These long counts of seasons,
that you have a sudden change.
It's gradual.
Even if it quickens,
as weather quickens,
during the change of a season,
it also takes some time.
And a lot of my work
is based on actually
talking to Maya people.
And anthropologists who actually
speak Maya and lived with them,
rather than what I came to
understand in press conferences
I did in Mexico
City in 2010, where
a lot of the Mexican press
and all across Latin America
showed up for this.
And they were
saying, well, we're
gratified that you're
talking about our heritage.
But we're also a little
confused and overwhelmed by all
the things that
have been loaded on.
And I said, yes, you're
talking about the Gringos
from the North.
The Gringos from North--
>> NOORY: We did that.
>> HOGUE: Jose
Arguelles and others,
who masterfully
imaginitive stuff,
but it's all projected
on this system.
And that often
happens, we had this
before when Richard Noone
tried to make May 5, 2000
the time when the
Earth's axis would shift.
And nothing happened.
He wrote a marvelous book
about it that was all wrong,
but it was a great read.
And the late Jose
Arguelles wrote
some great wonderful stuff.
But as a scholar, I have to hose
it down a little bit and say,
come on folks, it is
more seasonal change.
I mean, basically,
the Mayan calendar--
I'm going to try to make
this as simple as I can.
It is a complicated system,
especially for our minds,
because we think of
the calendar as linear,
because of our
Judeo-Christian conditioning.
But this is actually
like an odometer.
It's flicking these kins,
these days, again and again.
And at a certain point,
a grand round is made,
and then it clicks
the whole thing up.
And then, counts it
20 times more time.
And then, when those 20 times
more time larger periods
of time reach the
number 13, then it
flicks to another big wheel,
and another big wheel.
And that's how you
basically get what's
called the long count
in the Mayan calendar.
Which is a baktun
of 400 plus years.
13 times that unit,
you get the grand age.
The round of the grand age,
which started around 3100
BC, and people are
expecting to end today,
on the 21st of December, 2012.
It is 5,125 years, I believe.
So that, in the simplest form,
it's a very complicated system.
But that is basically what
we're talking about here.
An odometer.
Now the question is, does it go
back to 0000 and start again,
or is that the end of time?
This theory that the
late Terence McKenna
used to say that
there's a time wave
zero that's supposed
happen tonight.
But everything's
supposed to stop.
I think that is a
fundamental misunderstanding
of the seasonal quality
that the Native Americans
that I talked to Central,
North, and South.
And all their traditions
talk about this
as a seasonal change.
So time will reboot,
and I won't have
to eat this hat in the
few seconds remaining.
>> NOORY: When time reboots,
what does the future hold
for us?
I mean, you have personally
made a lot of predictions
on "Coast to Coast."
You have picked now the last
12 presidential elections.
Uncanny percent.
What's the future hold for us?
What do you see?
>> HOGUE: You know, there's
a side to the Mayan calender,
one of its largest and
longest calculations,
as you multiply
20, 13, 20, 13, 20,
you get this huge time clock,
which covers about 64 million
years.
That would mean that
it goes from our time,
all the way back to a million
years after the big rock--
>>NOORY: Wiped
out the dinosaurs.
>> HOGUE: --where the Maya were
many millions of years later.
And brought us into the age of
the mammals, which brought us
into an age of life on Earth
that could evolved collectively
out of instinct to
sentience with the hominids
and the human beings.
So in the biggest season
of the Mayan calendar, that
is changing now, is a season
that for at least 5,000 years
in the last cycle in
history, human beings
are becoming more and more
sentient to a point of crisis
in our times.
So even though the
Mayan calendar actually
was aligned 13 years
ago, we're still
under the influence
of it going out.
And you could say that there's
an orb in the Mayan calendar.
An orb of degrees.
15 years in, and 15 years out.
And 2012 actually marks
the last five degrees
of us being in this
process of lining up
with the galactic
center now lining out.
So it's kind of like the
final flush of the old
and the beginning of the new.
Now, my feeling
as an interpreter
and as also a
predictor of future,
is that once we've
passed this day,
this quickening will continue.
That in a year from
now, after we've
survived 2013 and the roller
coaster ride of 2014, 2015,
2016, we enter a period
of civilization crisis
that many other
traditions who don't
count as much as
the Mayans do say
is what's going to
happen in the 2020s,
where the systemic
flaws of our system,
that we're still trying to drag
into this new and revolutionary
century, is going
to actually unhinge.
There are many prophecies and
native peoples about that there
is a critical mass of too many
people living unconsciously,
thinking and putting out into
psycho-sphere unconscious
energies, that they call
it this wave of madness.
Rather than a time wave
zero, there's a madness wave,
that before it's gone to zero,
is affecting us more than ever.
Which brings up
another issue that's
very important to many
people viewing beyond 2012.
Many of the prophets
that I also write about,
like Gurdjieff, like Osho,
and others that are--
>> NOORY: Were they as
good as Nostradamus?
>> HOGUE: Well, in some ways,
more fundamentally on track
with what is needed in the
future than Nostradamus.
For instance, clearly
in the prophecies
of the prophets of the
new humanity of Homo
novus, that that is born out
of us out of a great crisis.
And that crisis is the
sustainability of the past.
We are entering a period of
history-- and for over a decade
now, you and I have talked
about this on the radio.
How I said, every year that
we get deeper and deeper
in the 21st century, the message
of existence that's saying,
you've all got to change.
You've all got to
redefine what is
to be religious,
economical, moral.
All these things
have to be rebooted,
or you will see a
division of the human race
into the old mankind that
the Hopi Indians said,
if you didn't embrace the
change of the great purification
that's coming, which is
related to the Mayan calendar
prophecies, then you would
drop dead from your own fear.
>> NOORY: See, we're in that
eye of the storm right now,
aren't we?
>> HOGUE: Well,
this is a marker.
This is a date in the
Mayan calendar that we tag
and the Maya tag, just as a
reference point to a larger
transformation of ages.
Or the Hopi would call it that
we're losing the fourth world,
going into a fifth world.
Rebooting of another time space.
So rather than time wave
zero, we're in new times.
And because we brought
so much of our baggage
from the other eras
into it, that baggage
is going to cause us to
have what I call the roaring
2020s, which are
going to be the most
dangerous decade for the
survival the human race.
And it will have to
evolve and redefine itself
to face its challenges.
>> NOORY: Do you find this
era exciting right now?
Are you glad you're alive
during this time period?
>> HOGUE: Well, as a person
on the path of meditation,
I feel I'm here to take
life as a challenge.
To celebrate it.
I'm actually, even
though I'm well
known for my prophetic
work, I'm anti-prophetic.
I look at prophecy like a
tantric teacher looks at sex.
He's actually trying to
help you transcend it
to super-consciousness.
I mean, Osho is one of the
more famous people for this.
But what he's basically
saying is, in tantra, is you
go through the thing
rather than repress it.
It's there.
We're fixated on future.
We want to know what's
happening tomorrow.
So embrace it.
Understand it through
going through it.
>> NOORY: I want
the lottery numbers.
>> HOGUE: Yeah, exactly.
I want to know if my
son or daughter is going
to get married to
this guy, and all
of the stuff that projects this.
And what I take as a tantric
approach to the prophecy world,
to bring people through the
future, back to the one place
where all this happens.
The eternity of the present.
So I'm actually anti-prophetic.
But I use prophecy to get
us back to the present.
Because this is where
we're empowered.
>> NOORY: So you're
bullish on the future?
>> HOGUE: I'm bullish on
projecting and recreating
an echo of that future which
embraces a golden present.
And so that's actually
the key to giving birth
to this new humanity.
Because we are all
carrying the seed
of this new humanity in us.
These people of the future
live in the present.
So if they are going to
have a bridge of this utopia
to our times, we all
need to critically amass
an individual understanding that
we must live in the present.
>> NOORY: What would you tell
a 10-year-old today about his
or her future?
>> HOGUE: The first thing I say,
not even just to a 10-year-old,
but a new millennial,
to a Generation Xer,
which I've often done, to
teenagers, I say, I apologize.
I am sorry for my generation,
and the so-called greatest
generation before
that spoiled us.
And if they were a
great generation,
why did they do not prevent
50 million people from being
killed in World War II?
I mean, all due
respect to Brokaw,
who coined the phrase
"the next generation,"
I think humanity will
truly be great when
we stand here and say, there has
been no great generation yet.
We have not given birth
to that generation.
So I look at that
10-year-old and say,
I will do whatever I can to
help you be that generation.
And if I fail, when your
children are reared, help them.
And eventually, we will
have that great generation,
which will give birth to
Homo novus, the new man.
>> NOORY: So when somebody
says, what's next?
Here's the Mayan calendar,
it's come and gone.
What happens five
years from now?
10 years from now?
>> HOGUE: Well, we are reaching
a critical mass of putting too
much carbon into the atmosphere
that will create a cascade
of runaway global
warming as soon as 2017.
25 years ago in my books,
I said the calculations
of how quickly the
oceans will rise,
and how fast the
climate will heat up,
were based on not factoring
in the permafrost melting
in the Northern hemisphere.
Which is literally a
super volcano of methane
that no one has seen, which
has especially since 2008
been vomiting a vast amount
of even richer greenhouse gas
than CO2.
>> NOORY: And more to come.
>> HOGUE: If we
have world leaders,
it takes some Nostradamus
to look at the difficulty
of the situation, that
the Copenhagen Accords was
our Munich Pact before the Great
World War that we must face
and fight with stupid.
Stupid is the enemy
this time around.
And it's a harder enemy
to deal with, because--
>> NOORY: But you
can't fix stupid.
>> HOGUE: That's
what stupid says.
And that's what all the
stupid in our history,
which is the fundament of
our history, has told us.
You can't get out of the box.
You can't fly in the air.
You can't capture radio waves.
And you can't
enlighten the world.
These are those parts of
the human instinct that
presume humanity in us which are
actually territorialized animal
habits overthrown from
that long Mayan count of 64
million years, that even
in the reality of people
who think they can collectively
become enlightened today,
are you enlightened yet?
>> NOORY: They will be.
They will be.
>> HOGUE: Any moment from now.
The thing is, why do people want
to be enslaved by a calendar?
A day?
A magic wand?
>> HOGUE: When it
should be forever.
>> NOORY: Well, this whole
journey of even being on TV
and radio started with
the harmonic convergence.
The first my 900
plus, I lost count,
radio shows on four
counts -- continents,
happened in Seattle when
my first book came out.
And there was a debate
going on between somebody
who, that Sunday, was going
to be up in Mount Rainier.
>> HOGUE: Well, I think that's
how the network found you
in the first-- let's take some
questions from the audience,
John.
And then, we'll wrap
things up with you.
OK.
We've got John Hogue.
And I want you to get your
website out in a moment,
because everybody wants to
find out how to find you.
Who's next?
Who's got a question for John?
There you go.
>> AUDIENCE: As someone who
spent their life looking
into prophecy cross-culturally
and also in meditation
and tantra, how would you
advise people to begin to live
in the moment that
you're speaking about?
>> HOGUE: The first thing to do
is find meditation techniques
that are appropriate
for the modern mind.
Most people start by
trying to be like a farmer
25 centuries ago in
Bihar, who's met Buddha,
and Buddha said, just
sit down and watch
your breath coming in,
coming out, coming in.
A person 25 centuries
ago, without all
of our distractions, without
all the complexity of our life,
could do that, and perhaps
attain a certain glimpse
or enlightenment.
But we live in an overwrought,
overtactiled, overexposed,
desensitizing world.
We have a lot
more, as we evolve,
more sophistication
in our minds.
We have a lot more
things to throw out
that need a playful, active
way to go through stages that
can get all that stuff
literally shook off yourself,
and then reach a certain stage,
where after you've really
thrown it off, you
can feel yourself sink
into that space
25 centuries ago,
like some farmer
in Buddha's time,
and have a glimpse of something.
And once you get that
glimpse under your skin,
then a whole new journey begins
of existential, experiential,
encounter moment to
moment with yourself.
Now for me, I often do
this in hogueprophesy.com,
I could only honestly
share the meditations
that I've been doing
since 1980, when
I became a disciple of Osho.
And so, I often offer freely
these links and information.
And I just say to the reader
or to you, just experiment
with it.
One of things about
the Aquarian Age
is, it's not going to be an
age of belief-based religions.
It's going to be
an age of science.
Even the spiritual world.
And science is based on the word
scira, which means to know, not
to base your entire life
and future of your religion
on a qualified ignorance, which
isn't what really belief means.
So the faith-based
religions of the Piscean era
are going to dwindle
in influence.
Meditation is not
a religion, it's
a technique that gives you more
sensitivity to who you are.
And I say to Christians, it'll
make you a better Christian.
It'll make you a better atheist.
It'll make you a better
Buddhist, a Hindu, a Muslim.
And it may actually
also make you
simply religious without
any of those things.
That too can be helped by it.
So I can only give what I've
experienced as the fair thing
and say, if it resonates
with you, play with it.
If it doesn't, no problem.
>> NOORY: Who's got
another one for us?
How about over here?
Yes, ma'am.
>> AUDIENCE: I loved
your descriptions.
And I was curious,
did Nostradamus
address 2012 at all?
He didn't necessarily
know about that culture.
>> HOGUE: You know, there's
been a lot said about that that
a man who was so good at
calculating-- in fact,
I'm just releasing today for
download at hogueprophesy.com--
>> NOORY: H-O-G-U-E, by the way.
>> HOGUE: That's right.
It's like the wine.
>> NOORY: Yes.
>> HOGUE: A lot has been said
about Nostradamus actually
foreseeing the grand
alignment in 2012.
If that's true,
why would someone
who got so many periods
of time right, openly
describe dates and
things, not mention 2012?
You think because it would
not have threatened him
by the church.
No one knew the significance.
He could have just
simply said, 2012
is when this big
shift, the cycle,
the great motor of the
centuries will change.
Instead, he's talks about at
the end of the Millennium.
And in his other
calculations, it's 1999.
He's just off by
about seven months
or so from the winter
solstice that happened,
or the midpoint between the
winter solstice of '98 and '99.
So I contend that
Nostradamus did something
that the Mayan didn't do.
He actually got the point right.
But to say that he was a
Mayan, or that the lost
book of Nostradamus,
which was a fraud
created in the 1700s, which
if it was created by anyone,
it might have been created
by his son, who was known
to expand his own participation
in his father's legacy.
It's a complete
red herring that he
had anything to do with
the Mayan calendar.
And he didn't need to.
He was more accurate.
>> NOORY: Well, your
work, John, is phenomenal.
And we're going to be back
with final comments on "Beyond
Belief" in just a moment.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NOORY: John Hogue with us.
John, you're an
expert in Nostradamus.
Nostradamus' predictions.
You make your own predictions.
I've talked with you
for at least 10 years
on "Coast to Coast."
The last 12
presidential elections,
you have called it,
even with the Al Gore
one on the popular vote.
How do you do these things?
>> HOGUE: Well, it's completely
different from what Nostradamus
did.
I simply do nothing.
The work I do, if it
can be called that,
is to get out of my own way.
And it just happens for me
that when I get to that point,
that still, small point where
the eternity of the present
seems to be welling up,
then it's in that point
that it's almost
like, oh, Clinton
is going to be the president.
>> NOORY: It just hits you.
>> HOGUE: And it's
very undramatic.
You know, no hair on my fire.
No Tcheky Karyo in
the Nostradamus movie
climbing the library walls.
>> NOORY: You would not-- and I
tried to get John to change his
mind when he picked
President Obama.
Not for any political views.
It was just at a time
when everyone said,
he's not going to get reelected.
You didn't change your mind.
I went back in the
records of that.
I've got the show
up actually linked
to my website,
hogueprophesy.com,
where in September of 2009,
that was when I officially
said he would be a
second term president.
And really, the
prophet hit the fan.
I mean, it was a lot
of people were upset.
And then later
on, and I hope you
will continue to say
this, because is there
some one thing that
could change it?
For instance, any of
you who read my work
know that I also
anticipated Hillary Clinton
to be president in 2008.
But I said there
was one weak link.
>> NOORY: One caveat.
One change.
>> HOGUE: Yeah.
The caveat was that if
she couldn't explain--
this was a year
before it happened.
It was the 2nd of March,
2007 when I documented this.
That if she didn't deal
with her vote for Iraq,
the anti-war movement, in a
tight election with Barack
Obama, would swing to him, and
she would lose her destiny,
and he we come to--
>> NOORY: Bingo.
>> HOGUE: --and he would
come to his too soon,
and he would waste his first
term trying to learn how to be
president.
So he survived.
And--
>> NOORY: Now, when
people make predictions,
and I get this all the time on
the program, most of the time,
predictions are of calamities.
There's never a
prediction of something
nice is going to happen.
Why is that?
>> HOGUE: Because time is mind.
And mind is programmed
to be predictable.
So in most cases, people who
are living in their minds,
deep in their
minds, usually cycle
towards the negative
potentials of unconsciousness.
A of people have asked me about
the prophecies of Nostradamus
concerning the Antichrist.
He had three of them
in his prophecies.
And in the book, "Nostradamus
and the Antichrist,
Code Name Mabus--"
>> NOORY: And we
think it's Napoleon.
>> HOGUE: Napoleon,
Hitler, and then--
>> NOORY: Hitler and?
>> HOGUE: Somebody who
can decode the word Mabus,
M-A-B-U-S. And there's
four major people who do
anagrammatically that.
Saddam Hussein, Osama
bin Laden, Barack Obama,
and George W. Bush.
>> NOORY: Nobody else?
>> HOGUE: Well, there are
other potentials always.
But these are the ones
that really cycle strong.
Now, I go through all
the permutations of that.
But I suddenly had an epiphany
at the end of the book
that I needed to talk
about the real Antichrist.
So I said to the
readers, I'm going
to show you the real Antichrist.
You're going to get
up from your Kindle.
You're going to walk
into the bathroom.
You're going to look
into the mirror.
No, it's not the person
you see in the mirror.
It's the mind behind
your eyes that
misinterprets what
you're seeing.
Because that is the source of
the predictability of prophecy,
which trends towards
the unconscious.
One thing that often
happens in dated predictions
is that the bomb drops right
out of dated predictions
around 2000 and 2012.
And then there are very few of
a controlled group of prophets
doing the most
difficult kind of thing.
>> NOORY: Do they pick up later?
>> HOGUE: No, they don't.
So that has one of
two possibilities.
Either we mechanically follow
our predictability into this
crisis-filled time
of the 2020s--
>> NOORY: And it is
a crisis-filled time.
>> HOGUE: --and we are not
then inspired to change,
real change, evolve, then the
predictability of that timeline
will destroy itself.
And therefore,
there's not much said.
Or faced with the
crisis that's coming
and the survival of humanity,
a collection of individuals,
not a forest of people--
this is an unconscious idea.
When that happens,
spontaneous intelligent people
are less predictable.
A more spontaneous
intelligent human race
will not be foreseen
much by prophets,
because they live outside of
the negativity of the mind.
So except for a few mystics,
like Gurdjieff, and Osho,
and Krishnamurti,
and other people,
who have foreseen
a new man, they
say this new man
happens from people
living in their intelligence.
Finding a way to get out of the
programming of the past, which
has betrayed them.
>> NOORY: I have learned
about prophecy from a lot
of our guests, especially you.
And I see the future
as being a bumpy road,
but we're going
to come out of it.
Eventually, good
will defeat evil.
Smart people will beat
the stupid people.
But getting there will be one
heck of a roller coaster ride.
And if we don't hold on,
we're going to fall out.
Do you feel that way?
>> HOGUE: Well,
early in the show,
we talked about how Nostradamus
saw almost another 1800 years
of history.
And in that same prophecy in
the "Profecias de Cesar," which
is his dedication
to his son, which
started his huge
prophetic work, he
talks about a
final conflagration
of the sun expanding
to the orbit of Earth,
burning up the Earth, but Mars
will continue its revolutions.
Now, that's astronomically
what they theorize
is going to happen.
And that could happen.
And it could happen.
Although many billions
of years later,
he says it's the
next 1800 years.
But he says the races of
humanity will survive this.
Many of them will go to
Aquarius and spend time there
for a period of time.
Many more go to Cancer and
live on time immemorial.
Live forever.
So it's his last prediction
dealt in a dyslexic way.
It's one first predictions
in his huge prophecy.
The last prediction is positive.
It's saying that we
will go beyond time.
That it's the only
time he uses astrology
as a place rather than a sign.
So when you look up
into the sky, when
you see the stars of Cancer
and Aquarius at night,
you may be looking at the
future worlds of humanity,
who will live beyond time.
>> NOORY: Yes or no
to these questions.
Extraterrestrial life
somewhere out the universe?
Intelligent life like ours?
Yes or no.
>> HOGUE: They're waiting
for us to be ready for them.
>> NOORY: That's a yes.
>> HOGUE: Yes.
>> NOORY: And life after death?
Even life in life.
>> NOORY: The ability for
humanity to pull out of this
mire, this muck, and survive?
>> HOGUE: Never will happen,
because there's no such thing
as humanity.
That's a forest,
that's an abstract.
>> NOORY: No.
>> HOGUE: There are trees.
When all the individual
trees that make up humanity,
when enough of them
start realizing that only
their insignificance
in meditation
happens, and then
all of them start
changing the so-called forest.
>> NOORY: What do
you think, John,
happens to be the biggest
question that most people have.
When you talk to them, I know
you from speaking engagements.
We go all over the
country together.
What do they want
to know from you?
>> HOGUE: They always
ask the wrong question.
So I give them the
question that is
the only question that matters.
Who are you?
>> NOORY: Can they answer that?
Can they answer that?
>> HOGUE: There is a point where
one starts to, by the simple
asking, not even with the words,
but finding a thread in every
moment of your life, who
are you, who are you,
who is doing this?
Who is talking?
Who is happy?
Who is sad?
Who is in?
There comes a point
where I am told
how I'm seeing at this side
of the beginning of it,
that the questions begin
to be erased by answer.
That questions are perpetually
creating themselves out
of the same raw energy.
And then by simply doing
this mantra, this meditation,
every waking, sleeping hour,
you become aware of answer.
And one becomes
intimate with it.
I used to know so much
more about the occult,
and astral projections,
UFOs, everything like that.
And as I am now 32 years
a disciple of meditation.
>> NOORY: I thought you were
going to say your were 32 years
old.
>> HOGUE: No.
I'm more like 58.
But the more I go
deeper into this,
I am losing all this
knowledge of what it is.
I really don't know what it is.
And in that process, it
becomes far more intimate,
far more close now.
I am disappearing into it,
and it's perfectly fine
to just go deeper and deeper
into this mystery of, who am I?
>> NOORY: You have hope?
>> HOGUE: No.
Hope is a four letter word.
The man of the future will look
at many of our more happy words
as great inhibitors.
If you have hope, you also
drag along hopelessness.
If you have belief, you
also drag along disbelief.
If you kill one of them,
the other vanishes.
Hope is a four letter word.
People need to make
their future happen, not
hope that someone
else other than them
will have this
enlightened experience.
>> NOORY: I like that, and
I think everybody else does.
Give us your website.
You've got e-books on it.
Tell us about it.
>> HOGUE: My website
is hogueprophecy.com.
That's H-O-G-U-E,
P-R-O-P-H-E-C-Y dot com.
And I have abandoned the
dead tree publishing industry
about 10 books ago.
>> NOORY: You're
all electronic now.
>> HOGUE: Lower our footprint as
readers, as well as publishers.
I've killed a lot of forests.
And now, I'm trying to
counterbalance that.
And if I am an
accurate futurist,
then I know the next trends.
And so, you can go to my
website, and download my books,
and read over 400 pages
of documented articles
of predictions I've
been making since 1999.
>> NOORY: And you
make them well.
John Hogue.
Let's have it for John Hogue.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: Well,
there you have it.
We're going to get
through December 21, 2012.
And I guarantee you, we'll be
back next Friday on GaiamTV.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]